# The Odin Project - Computer Science Projects
- Instructions for projects here, under "A Bit of Computer Science" header: https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/full-stack-javascript/courses/javascript#organizing-your-javascript-code

# Notes
- Recursive thinking is tough at first but started to feel more natural after all of these projects. I've been very used to thinking iteratively about problems.
- A linked-list is a data structure where each node stores a reference to the next node in the list. A doubly-linked-list contains a reference to the previous node along with the next node. Linked-lists are generally more efficient than arrays at inserting or removing data (O(1) constant time, as opposed to O(n) linear time in an array). Arrays have to perform complex operations to add/remove an element in the middle, like reallocating all of the data it contains. However a list is not as efficient at doing things like adding on to the end of the container, due to the necessity of having to progress all the way through the list to update the references in the last node. Mutable arrays (arrays that grow as needed) are an illusion, because under the hood it's just a continuous block of memory that has to be reallocated when enough new elements have been added. Whereas with a linked list, you can grow and shrink a list of elements without having to reallocate the rest of the list.
- A Binary Search Tree is just an ordered Binary Tree that satisfies the binary search property. Duplicate nodes are not allowed. Because of this ordering, you can use a BST to perform fast insertion, removal, and lookup (O(n) worst-case) of items. n-ary Trees (non-binary) are more complex, and usually provide no real speed advantage.
- It is important that a BST be 'balanced': the heights of the left and right subtree must be within 1 of each other. Otherwise, your BST becomes more liked a linked-list, and to perform operations on that tree you would need to traverse through many more elements to find what you want. Worst case time-complexity of a balanced BST is O(log n), as opposed to O(n) (linear). Of course, the advantages of O(log n) over O(n) don't appear with a small data set.